My Morning Commute
Monday 18/06/18, 09:15
I started trying to write my first blog entry yesterday, while flying from Birmingham to Paris en route to Geneva. I wrote around three sentences before I ran out of things to say. If the day had gone to plan there wouldn't really be much to talk about; the plan was to get to CERN around 9pm, check into the on-site Meyrin Hostel, and relax and get a good night's sleep. Unfortunately for me, but possibly fortunate to the many thousands of you I expect will be reading this blog, none of these things happened.

My day started in my house in Selly Oak, Birmingham around 9am. I got up, got my stuff together and set off for the airport. Often, in high season, you can fly directly from Birmingham to Geneva. Unfortunately for me high season seems to begin just after I needed to fly out. I had booked my journey to go via Paris, so my flight from Birmingham got me into Charles de Gaulles airport around 4pm CET. My flight to Geneva was due to take off at 6:30pm, a layover which I thought was a little too long, but actually appreciated in the end as it took some time to navigate the absolutely massive airport.

After several hours of waiting, till nearly 8pm, and being told the flight was delayed, but would still leave, the rest of the passengers and I were informed that they had cancelled our flight. What ensued was around 3 hours of pure chaos. When the dust settled I eventually was re-booked onto another flight, which I am sitting on now as I write this, leaving at 8:30am the next day. It took more than an hour and a half of standing in a long queue and listening to people argue with all of the airline staff to achieve this outcome. The only real upside is that I learnt a lot of colourful words in French. The matter of where I was sleeping was also settled by the airline, they put me up in an airport hotel a short shuttle bus ride away.

Of course this flight cancellation means I'm going to miss my 9am start tomorrow, and the welcome event that is being put on for all the summer students starting today. This is quite upsetting, but I emailed the people running the event and they have made arrangements to get me caught up on all the important information, which is obviously very nice. It's going to be an interesting rest of the day for sure, I'm especially looking forward to dragging 21kg of luggage halfway across Geneva when we land! Hopefully I'll be able to get another post up this evening or tomorrow morning, so tune in then to find out more...