Busy Start
Wednesday 20/06/18, 23:00
So I said I would probably be writing another blog post on Monday evening or Tuesday morning, but somehow it's reached Wednesday night and yet I still haven't written one; so here we go. It's been a <i>very</i> busy first few days, arriving at CERN, starting work, and socialising with some of the other summer students. I'll do my best, dear readers, to take you through the events of the past 60 hours...
So I landed in Geneva Monday morning, picked up my bag and a free transport ticket at the airport, and got the bus to the CERN site. I arrived just after 11am, and checked into my room at the hostel. A quick change of clothes, then I was off to the summer student team office to let them know I'd finally arrived. They were very understanding, and planned to set up a meeting for me that afternoon to catch me up on all the information given in the welcome meeting; in the mean time they told me where to find my supervisor so I could find out more about my project for the summer.
When I managed to find my supervisor, after 20 minutes of awkwardly sitting around outside his empty office, we went to get lunch at Restaurant 1 on site. We talked about what I'd be working on for the next 11 weeks; there were a lot of acronyms involved, none of which I was familiar with (some of which I still am not). The gist of it is that I'll be working with some of the electronics involved in data acquisition (DAQ) systems at CMS. The DAQ forms part of the trigger systems, which decide what collisions have created interesting phenomena and deserve to be kept for analysis. More specifically, I'll be programming these electronics to create testing interfaces, which will display their current state and what data they are receiving and transmitting. At least that's how I understand it currently, very much subject to change.
I spent most of the afternoon reading up on everything I'd just been told about, in the most part deciphering acronyms. In the remainder of the afternoon I went back to the summer student team office, they gave me a special presentation along with one other student who arrived late. They even set out juice and snacks for us to make up for missing the free breakfast they put on that morning. Possibly the most exciting part of the day, however, was when I got to pick up my CERN ID, which I have not been able to take off (I'm not going to pretend I don't sleep in it).
Monday evening I met up with some of the other summer students in Restaurant 1 for some food and beer. There are such a diverse range of people here, we spent a couple of hours chatting about ourselves, what we're working on at CERN, etc. Then we went to nearby watering hole in Saint-Genis, had a few beers, and watched the England match.
Tuesday and Wednesday I spent most of the day working; my first task was to update a piece of software, similar to the main one I'll be working on, fromm C++03 to C++11. Essentially, I spent a very long time fixing a very large number of errors, across thousands of lines of code designed for a different compiler. So, great fun. Tuesday afternoon I got to take a break to go on a visit to the first ever accelerator at CERN - the Synchrocyclotron. It was very interesting to find out about, I actually had no idea that it had ever existed. Apparently they wanted to get rid of it to make room for office space, but it was too expensive so they ended up keeping it. There was a video that went through some of the history of CERN as well, with some very impressive projections. We also had a visit to the ATLAS visitor centre, we couldn't visit the detector itself seeing as the machine is running, so we got a 3D film instead.
`!--- Images: ---!`
building-40-outside.jpg    |Building 40, where I work. One of the few modern buildings on site.
building-40-inside.jpg     |Inside building 40. There's a large picture of the CMS detector.
view-from-office.jpg       |The view from my office window.
id-card.jpg                |Me and my new CERN ID card.
synchrocyclotron.jpg       |The Synchrocyclotron, CERN's first accelerator.
