I Really Need to Write More Regularly
Sunday 24/06/18, 22:00
Once again I find myself having to catch you all up on several days at a time, I'm sorry that you have all been waiting so eagerly for so long dear readers. I have today been working on a system to automate the upload process for my blog entries, since I am not using any standard blogging platform, so hopefully I will be able to write more in future.
Thursday brought with it a visit to the main Data Centre and the 'Antimatter Factory'. Both are incredibly impressive feats of technology. The Data Centre is the primary computing facility at CERN, responsible for handling and storing the data generated by the detectors on the LHC. The purpose of the Antimatter Factory is to produce and study antimatter, looking to try and find any differences with matter, to explain the apparent matter-antimatter asymmetry. One of the key challenges is producing antiprotons and then decelerating them to energies where they might be contained and studied. Once the antiprotons are produced, they're then sent to a variety of experiments, each looking to examine different properties of antimatter.
Work for the latter part of the week has been focused on trying to get one program to run. We did finally manage that on Friday morning, which was useful as my supervisor left friday afternoon and will be away for the next week. I have been left to try and muddle through on my own; well not quite on my own, I can message my supervisor any time or get help from other people in the department, but it certainly feels more daunting. I appreciate the challenge though.
On friday evening I went into town with some of the other summer students to watch the football match: Switzerland vs Serbia. There's a place in the centre of Geneva, Plainpalais, where they set up some massive screens and streamed the match. The atmosphere was phenomenal among all the Swiss fans, especially with the tense end to the game. 1-1 since the 52nd minute, with Switzerland scoring a winner in the 90th minute. Of course we had to go for a few beers afterwards to celebrate. This culminated in 'missing' the last tram back to CERN at 12:30am, meaning it was either a two hour walk or waiting till the first tram at five in the morning. We didn't end up getting a tram until 6am in the end, going via a bar, an irish pub, a very odd club (you had to ring a doorbell to get in), and a rather pricey sandwich truck. It certainly made for an interesting night.
Since then, I've mostly been recovering, but I took the opportunity to do a bit of work on upgrading my blogging mechanics, as mentioned. Back to work tomorrow, hopefully I'll survive the week by myself.
`!---IMAGES---!`
data-centre.jpg        |The CERN Data Centre. The picture is not the best and only captures a fraction of the servers.
elena.jpg              |Elena, a new antiproton decelerator being built at the Antimatter Factory.
sunrise-lake.jpg       |Sunrise over lake Geneva, after our night on the town.